PREVIOUSLY
ON "CRIMINAL MINDS"...
WE'RE TAKING
YOU HOME.
GARCIA: DO YOU REALLY THINK
THAT HE CAN HANDLE IT,
I MEAN, ALL THAT REID'S
BEEN THROUGH?
LEWIS: WE ALL KNOW WHAT THAT CAN
DO TO THE PSYCHE OF AN INMATE.
ROSSI:
SCRATCH HAS SURFACED AGAIN,
THIS TIME AT JACK'S SCHOOL,
WHICH IS WHY HOTCH AND JACK
HAVE NOW ENTERED THE PROGRAM.
WITNESS
PROTECTION.
WE MIGHT HAVE A NEW LEAD
ON MR. SCRATCH.
THIS TEXT, IT'S A TRAP.
LET'S GO.
[TIRES SCREECHING]
GUYS?
[TELEPHONE LINE RINGING]
DON'T GO TO VOICE MAIL.
DON'T GO
TO VOICE MAIL.
[CLICK]
PRENTISS, ON PHONE:
THIS IS SSA EMILY PRENTISS.
I CAN'T TAKE YOUR CALL
RIGHT NOW, 50--
HEY, I CAME
AS SOON AS I COULD.
WHAT'S WRONG?
THEY'RE GONE.
THEY'RE
ALL GONE.
I'LL DRIVE.
YEAH.
CORRECT. PENELOPE
GRACE GARCIA,
TECHNICAL ANALYST,
BADGE NUMBER 0019er0.
I AM WITH INTERNATIONAL
RESPONSE TEAM
SPECIAL AGENT
MA'I'I' SIMMONS.
YEAH. I KNOW,
BUT SSA SPENCER REID
HASN'T BEEN
REINSTATED YET, SO--
OH, MY GOD, I KNOW
THIS IS PROTOCOL,
BUT YOU NEED TO STOP
ASKING ME QUESTIONS
AND SEND BACKUP
TO THE COORDINATES
I JUST GAVE YOU
RIGHT NOW, PLEASE...
[TIRES SCREECHING]
AND MEDICAL.
SEND LOTS OF MEDICAL.
GARCIA:
NO, NO...
OK. COME ON. I GOT YOU.
I GOT YOU. I GOT YOU. I GOT YOU.
JAG-OFF AMBUSHED US,
DIDN'T EVEN
SEE HIM COMING.
ALL RIGHT. WE GOT TO GET YOU
OFF THAT LEG, OK?
NO, NO. I'M FINE.
I'M FINE.
I'LL FLAG DOWN
THE CAVALRY.
YOU GO CHECK
ON THE TEAM.
YES, THE TEAM,
THE TEAM,
THE TEAM.
WHAT CAN I DO?
I CAN'T SEE.
HOW CAN I HELP?
UGH!
WAIT. ALL RIGHT.
I SEE IT, OK? I SEE IT.
YOU GOT SOME BROKEN GLASS
IN YOUR SCALP, JJ, OK?
JUST HOLD THIS TILL
THE AMBULANCE COMES, ALL RIGHT?
STEPHEN?
IT'LL BE HERE SOON.
[GASPS]
[EXHALES]
HE'S GONE.
I CAN'T LEAVE HIM
ALONE LIKE THIS.
SIMMONS:
LUKE! LUKE!
TARA, CAN YOU TELL ME
WHERE YOU'RE HURT?
UM, I THINK I'M
GOING INTO SHOCK.
OK. ALL RIGHT.
I GOT YOU.
TARA, WE'RE GONNA
WARM YOU UP, ALL RIGHT?
BLEEDING INTERNALLY,
BUT WE'LL GET
SOME BLOOD
TO YOUR BRAIN.
ALL RIGHT. LISTEN.
YOU'RE GONNA WANT
TO GO TO SLEEP.
WE CAN'T LET YOU DO THAT.
YOU GOT TO STAY WITH US, OK?
STAY WITH US.
OVER HERE!
[RADIO CHATTER]
THOSE SPIKE STRIPS
TOOK OUT OUR TWO SUVS.
THEN THE TRUCK
BLINDSIDED US.
WE HAVE 6 AGENTS THAT ARE--
WHERE'S EMILY?
[MOANING]
PRENTISS:
WHERE AM I?
YOU WERE IN A CAR
CRASH, A BAD ONE.
OH, MY GOD,
WHAT HAPPENED?
YOUR SUV SUSTAINED
THE BRUNT OF THE IMPACT.
SPECIFICALLY,
YOU SUSTAINED IT.
DO YOU REMEMBER?
NO. I--
[TIRES SCREECH]
WAIT. YEAH.
MY TEAM.
TAKE--TAKE IT EASY,
AGENT PRENTISS.
GOT YOU STABILIZED,
BUT YOU GOT TO STAY PUT.
WHERE AM I?
THIS ISN'T A HOSPITAL.
I'VE BEEN IN
ENOUGH HOSPITALS.
I KNOW HOW THEY SOUND,
HOW THEY SMELL,
SO WHERE
THE HELL AM I?
YOU'RE BEING
TAKEN CARE OF.
WE BOTH ARE.
WAIT. WHAT--
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
I DON'T
UNDERSTAND YOU.
YEAH. SHE'S CONSCIOUS.
WELL, HELLO, EMILY.
SON OF A BITCH.
IT'S NICE TO MEET
YOU, TOO, FINALLY.
DID YOU GRAB
ALL OF US, HUH?
ARE WE ALL HERE?
LUKE! JJ!
NO. IT'S JUST YOU.
YOUR TEAM IS FINE,
BY THE WAY.
EXCUSE ME.
I TAKE THAT BACK.
THE TRUCK I DROVE
INTO YOUR TEAM
DID KILL
SSA STEPHEN WALKER--
WHIPLASH, TRAGIC,
LEAVES BEHIND A WIFE
AND TWO CHILDREN,
I BELIEVE.
NO.
THAT'S GOOD.
GET IT ALL OUT.
I WILL MAKE SURE
YOU FRY FOR THIS.
WILL YOU?
WELL, MAYBE YOU
SHOULD TAKE A LOOK
AT YOURSELF FIRST...
BECAUSE FROM
WHERE I'M STANDING,
YOU WON'T BE DOING
MUCH OF ANYTHING
FOR THE REST
OF YOUR LIFE.
REID: "HOLD ON
WHEN THERE IS NOTHING IN YOU
EXCEPT THE WILL WHICH SAYS,
"HOLD ON."
RUDYARD KIPLING.
[DOOR OPENS]
HEY...
SPENCE.
YOU OK?
I'M...
I NEED TO CALL WILL.
I DID. I DID.
HE'S ON THE WAY.
RIGHT. RIGHT.
OH, MONICA,
STEPHEN'S WIFE.
SOMEONE NEEDS TO CALL
HER AND TELL THEM.
ROSSI'S REFUSING
TREATMENT
UNTIL HE SPEAKS
TO BOTH OF US.
WHAT'S GOING ON?
SHUT UP AND LISTEN.
ALL RIGHT.
FIRST, YOU, GO THROUGH
MY PANTS POCKETS
AND FIND MY KEYS.
SECOND, YOU, YOU'RE
BACK ON THE TEAM.
NOT SURE
I SHOULD BE.
HAS THE DIRECTOR
APPROVED THAT?
I'M MAKING
THE CALLS NOW.
I'LL TAKE THE HEAT.
YOU'RE BACK ON THE TEAM.
I GOT THEM.
THERE'S A LITTLE
ONE THERE
TO A FILE CABINET
IN MY OFFICE.
YOU FOLLOWING ME?
YEAH.
FOLLOWING YOU.
INSIDE, THERE'S CHICAGO
BEARS SEASON TICKETS.
WHEN YOU GET THEM,
YOU CALL MA'I'I' SIMMONS.
I PROMISED HIM
THOSE TICKETS.
[IN HALES SHARPLY]
THEY MUST HAVE
GIVEN HIM SOMETHING
IN THE AMBULANCE
TO MAKE HIM LOOPY.
I'LL GET
THE DOCTOR.
WE'LL GET HIM
INTO SURGERY.
JUST SHUT UP
AND LISTEN.
NOW, EMILY IS MISSING.
STEPHEN IS DEAD.
AS FOR YOU TWO
ASS CLOWNS,
YOU'LL DO ME THE COURTESY
OF FOLLOWING MY ORDERS.
YOUR ORDERS
AREN'T MAKING SENSE.
FOLLOW MY ORDERS,
AND THEN I'LL
GO INTO SURGERY.
THIS HAS GOT NOTHING TO
DO WITH SEASON TICKETS.
"ASS CLOWN"?
SO SCRATCH HACKED
MY PHONE TONIGHT
USING SOMETHING CALLED
A MAN IN THE MIDDLE ATTACK.
THAT MEANS HE'S ON
A SPECIFIC RADIO FREQUENCY.
AND YOU'RE THINKING
HE'S USING THE SAME
RADIO FREQUENCY TO
ACTIVATE THESE SPIKES.
WELL, HE IS
A MAN OF HABIT.
MAYBE WE CAN USE
THAT HABIT TO LOCATE HIM
AND FIGURE OUT--
THIS IS HOW I PROFILE.
[STATIC]
OH, OH, OH. HOLD.
FREEZE. FREEZE.
YOU JUST HIT IT.
HOLD ON.
ALL RIGHT.
BACK IT UP.
[STATIC]
BOOYAH.
NOW WE GOT
THE FREQUENCY.
WE JUST HAVE
TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE HE'S
BROADCASTING IT FROM.
OK. THAT IS EASIER
SAID THAN DONE.
RADIO SIGNALS WORK
ON A PRESET RANGE.
WE'LL WALK OR DRIVE IN
AND OUT OF PROXIMITY TO IT.
AND HE COULD BE
BOUNCING IT
OFF MULTIPLE
BUILDINGS.
YEAH.
THAT'S ALSO TRUE.
OK. THE LEAST I COULD DO
IS MAKE SURE SCRATCH
DOESN'T AMBUSH US AGAIN,
SO THE NEXT TIME HE GOES LIVE,
I'LL SET UP SOME SORT
OF SIGNAL, LIKE--
[BUZZ BUZZ]
GARCIA: THEY HAVE TO TAKE HIM
TO THE HOSPITAL, ANYWAY?
YEAH. THAT'S THE
PROPER PROCEDURE.
SIMMONS:
NEED A MINUTE?
SO, SO BADLY,
BUT...
[SIREN DEPARTING]
WE HAVE
TO HELP EMILY.
LET'S GET TO WORK.
SCRATCH: TAKING A LITTLE
MINDFULNESS BREAK?
TRYING TO CONTROL
YOUR BREATHING?
THAT'S SMART.
IT'LL KEEP YOU
SANE...
AND I NEED YOU SANE.
OH, HOW RUDE.
EXCUSE ME.
LOOK. I'M ONLY ALIVE
SO WHAT DO YOU WANT?
INFORMATION
THAT ONLY YOU HAVE.
WHAT ARE YOU
WAITING FOR, THEN?
DOSE ME WITH YOUR DRUGS,
THE ONES THAT MAKE ME SEE
WHATEVER DELUSION
YOU SUGGEST,
AND I'LL TELL YOU
WHAT YOU WANT.
HMM, I WOULD LOVE
NOTHING MORE THAN THAT.
UN FORTU NATELY,
IN YOUR CURRENT
PHYSICAL CONDITION,
THE SEVOFLURANE
AND SCOPOLAMINE
WOULD SEND YOU
INTO A STROKE.
I GUESS WE'RE AT
A STALEMATE, THEN.
NO. I STILL HAVE DRUGS
THAT CAN MAKE YOU TALK,
JUST DIFFERENT DRUGS.
THIS IS MORPHINE.
THIS IS WHAT
IS MAKING YOUR LIFE
VERY LIVABLE
RIGHT NOW.
WITHOUT THIS...
YOUR BODY
WILL BE ON FIRE,
AND THEN YOU
REALLY WILL TELL ME
EVERYTHING I WANT,
NO DELUSION NECESSARY.
I CAN'T ARREST HIM.
WHAT?
SCRATCH.
THE SECOND
I SEE HIS FACE,
I AM GOING
TO KILL HIM.
I TRIED TO TELL ROSSI NOT
TO PUT ME BACK ON THE TEAM.
YOU HEARD ME.
YEAH. I DID.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH ME?
MY GUESS IS, IT'S BEEN
GOING ON SINCE PRISON,
BUT YOU HAVEN'T HAD
TIME TO NOTICE.
EVERY TIME YOU GET STRESSED,
YOU GO INTO TUNNEL VISION.
THAT'S WHY YOU'RE RUBBING
YOUR PALM INTO YOUR EYE.
YEAH. WHAT DOES THAT
SOUND LIKE, REID?
SOUNDS LIKE PTSD.
PTSS.
THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
CALLING IT NOW,
POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS SYNDROME,
BECAUSE IT'S NOT
A DISORDER.
IT'S AN INJURY.
WELL, WHAT DO I DO?
I MEAN, WE'RE IN CRISIS MODE.
I DON'T HAVE TIME TO PROCESS
MY EMOTIONAL STATE.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHEN
YOU MAKE TIME, RIGHT?
YOU ASK FOR HELP.
THERE'S NO SHAME
IN THAT.
ROSSI'S OFFICE.
YEAH.
I'LL HANDLE THAT.
NO.
THERE'S SOMEONE
IN ROSSI'S OFFICE.
OK. NOW THAT
WE ARE SECURE,
I GOT THAT
FOR ROSSI LAST YEAR.
NOT ONLY IS IT
A CIGAR CASE,
BUT IT'S ALSO
A FARADAY CASE.
IT BLOCKS ALL RADIO
AND CELL SIGNALS.
I THINK SCRATCH MIGHT
BE LISTENING IN ON US
WITH OUR CELL PHONES,
EVEN WHEN THEY'RE OFF.
THAT EXPLAINS WHY ROSSI WAS
SO CAGEY IN THE HOSPITAL.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S FIND THESE TICKETS.
WHAT IS THIS?
STEPHEN WAS
BROUGHT ON BOARD
FOR ONE REASON.
THAT WAS
TO CATCH SCRATCH.
THAT IS HIS ENTIRE
INVESTIGATION INTO HIM.
SIMMONS: HE KEPT
ALL HIS RECORDS OFF SITE,
UPDATING PRENTISS AND ROSSI
THROUGH HARD COPIES.
REID: IF IT'S OFF THE CLOUD,
SCRATCH CAN'T HACK IT.
HAVE YOU leéYS READ IT?
PRENTISS ORDERED IT
COM PARTM ENTALIZED,
EYES-ONLY CLEARANCE,
BUT SHE ALSO FELT
THERE SHOULD BE AT LEAST
ONE FAILSAFE
WHO WASN'T PART
OF THE BAU
WHO KNEW ABOUT IT
JUST IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
THAT'S WHY GARCIA
CALLED ME.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S DIG IN.
I MEAN, THIS MAY BE
OUR ONLY CHANCE
AT STOPPING
THIS BASTARD.
[MOANING]
LOOK. OK. LOOK. OK.
WHATEVER IT IS,
WE CAN DISCUSS IT.
YOU DON'T
HAVE TO DO THIS.
JUST GIVE ME
THE MORPHINE, OK,
AN D--AN D--JUST--
YOU CAN ASK
WHATEVER YOU WANT.
IT WAS OUR INVESTIGATION
INTO YOU? IS THAT IT?
IS THAT WHAT
YOU WANT TO KNOW?
TANGENTIALLY.
OH! NNGH!
THEN WHAT?
TELL ME. TELL ME.
THEN I'LL TELL YOU.
IT'S THAT SIMPLE.
TELL ME,
AND I'LL TELL YOU.
YEAH. I BELIEVE
YOU WILL NOW.
THERE IS A CERTAIN
DEARLY DEPARTED
TEAM MEMBER OF YOURS
THAT I WOULD LIKE
TO DISCUSS WITH YOU.
STEPHEN.
NO, NOT STEPHEN.
THIS ONE ISN'T DEAD,
AT LEAST NOT YET.
THIS AGENT AND I HAD
A LITTLE TETE-A-TETE,
AND I CROSSED A LINE
I SHOULDN'T HAVE.
I REALLY COULDN'T
HELP MYSELF,
AND I STARTED
TO STALK HIS SON,
AND DO YOU KNOW
WHAT HE DID,
THAT COWARD?
HE WENT INTO WITNESS
PROTECTION...
AND HE HAS BEEN VERY
DIFFICULT TO FIND
EVER SINCE,
SO THAT'S WHAT
I WANT TO KNOW.
I WANT YOU TO
TELL ME WHERE HE IS
BECAUSE I KNOW
YOU KNOW.
NO.
OH, STOP. NO.
YES, EMILY.
WHERE IS
AARON HOTCHNER?
I DON'T KNOW
WHERE HOTCH IS.
I DON'T.
THAT'S HOW
WITSEC WORKS.
HE HAS TO BE
HIDDEN FROM US
BECAUSE OF MEN
LIKE YOU.
DO YOU
RECOGNIZE THIS?
WELL, IT WAS A TEXT
EXCHANGE YOU HAD
WITH A SERIES
OF BURNER PHONES,
AND A LAST TEXT
EXCHANGE BETWEEN YOU
AND THIS MYSTERY MAN
READS,
"HONDURAS CONNECTION
IS A GO.
"HUNTING DOWN ALL LEADS
TO B-CAP IN DC.
THANKS. A.H."
OH...
[BEEP]
LET'S GET DOWN TO
THE QUESTION AT HAND.
WHERE IS HOTCH?
WAIT, WAIT, WAIT,
WAIT, WAIT.
HE NEVER GAVE ME AN ADDRESS.
ALL WE DID WAS TEXT.
NO. LAST CHANCE.
VERMONT.
HE'S SOMEWHERE
IN VERMONT. AAH!
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
[RING]
[BEEP]
HI. I'M SORRY.
YOU DON'T WANT
TO DO THAT, MONICA.
OK. I'LL COME
GET YOU NOW.
[BEEP]
STEPHEN'S WIFE?
TELL HER I'M SORRY.
PRENTISS
TEXTED HOTCH?
ACCORDING TO STEPHEN'S
DOCUMENTATION, YES.
IT MUST HAVE BEEN
A COORDINATED ATTEMPT
TO SHARE INTEL.
WOULD HOTCH HAVE
EXPOSED HIMSELF LIKE THIS?
NO, AND NEITHER
WOULD SHE.
I MEAN, SHE WOULDN'T
RELY ON A HACKABLE APP,
AND SHE SURE AS HELL WOULDN'T
WRITE, "A.H.," IN A TEXT.
THAT DEFEATS
THE PURPOSE
OF COM PARTM ENTALIZING
THE INVESTIGATION.
IT WAS A SMOKE SCREEN.
STEPHEN HAD A BACKGROUND
IN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
HE MUST HAVE
DESIGNED THIS.
HE FAKED THE HOTCH SIDE
OF THE CONVERSATION
TO ENTICE SCRATCH
TO MAKE A MOVE.
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF WHICH
INDICATE DESPERATION,
A DESPERATION
HE HASN'T SHOWN
AFTER A YEAR OF HIDING,
SO WHY NOW?
A.H. IS A PRETTY BIG
RED FLAG.
MAYBE THAT'S
WHAT BROUGHT HIM OUT.
WELL, THEY USED
HOTCH'S INITIALS
IN OTHER TEXTS
BEFORE.
THEN THEY FOUND
SOMETHING ELSE,
SOMETHING THEY KNEW
WOULD RATTLE HIM.
B-CAP.
WHAT'S B-CAP?
SIMMONS:
GEOGRAPHY MAYBE.
I MEAN, IT'S MENTIONED
IN RELEVANCE TO DC.
GARCIA: MAYBE ITS
A CODE NAME FOR A PARTNER.
I CAN'T SEE IT.
HEY, NO.
WHY DON'T WE KICK IT
OVER TO THE TEAM?
MAYBE THEY
CAN SUSS OUT--
NO. NO TIME.
GET OUT.
WHAT?
GET OUT. SORRY.
YOU, TOO. I'M REALLY
SORRY, BUT GET OUT.
GARCIA: LET ME GET THIS,
AND THEN I'M GONNA GO.
IT'S OK.
OK.
HE'S HAD A ROUGH
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
[EKG BEEPING]
[DOOR OPENS]
OH...
OH, MY GOD, BABE.
OH, HOW ARE THE KIDS?
OH, THEY'RE FINE.
THEY'RE FINE.
I DIDN'T EVEN
WAKE THEM.
I GOT YOUR MOM
TO COME OVER.
OH, RIGHT.
LOOK AT ME.
HOW ARE YOU?
UM, HE--HE GAVE ME
THE FRONT SEAT.
STEPHEN DID?
YEAH. I WAS ALL SET
TO SIT IN THE BACK,
BUT HE GOT THERE
FIRST, AND I--
SO IS IT TIME
TO CALL IT?
THAT WAS THE DEAL,
RIGHT?
IF IT GOT TOO SCARY,
ONE OF US COULD CALL IT,
NOT TODAY, NOT THIS WEEK
AFTER WE FIND EMILY.
WELL, IF I REMEMBER,
YOU WOULD BE
A FULL-TIME MOM,
AND I WOULD RUN
A BREAKFAST PLACE.
MM, AND I'D GO
TO ALL THE PTA MEETINGS.
YOU'D COME HOME
SMELLING LIKE GREASE.
HA HA HA!
IT'S TEMPTING.
HMM, YEAH,
SO DO YOU WANT
TO CALL IT?
YOU SEE THESE RINGS?
WE'VE WORN THEM
FOR 5 YEARS,
BUT I'VE LOVED YOU
FOR 10.
HASN'T BEEN EASY.
NO, BUT I WOULDN'T
TRADE A SINGLE DAY,
NOT EVEN THE AWFUL
ONES LIKE TODAY...
AND I'LL DO WHATEVER
YOU WANT TO DO,
BUT--
OH, THANK GOD.
NEITHER DO I.
MM.
GET A ROOM,
YOU TWO.
IS MY LEG
STILL ATTACHED?
JAREAU: YEAH.
IS PRENTISS--
NOTHING.
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
[BEEP]
ALL RIGHT. I GOT TO GO.
LUKE'S HERE.
OH.
OH, MONICA--
DON'T.
I CAN'T.
WHERE'S MY HUSBAND?
[SOBS]
OH, BABE, WHAT HAPPENED?
[EXHALES]
THE KIDS
ARE STILL ASLEEP.
HOW DO I--
[SOBS]
[IN HALES]
HUH.
I'LL TAKE CARE OF IT, OK?
[CLEARS THROAT]
[SNIFFLES]
SEE YOU.
[SOBS]
[CRYING]
[EKG BEEPING]
WHERE IS THAT PLACE
THAT YOU GO TO
TO GROUND YOURSELF?
I'D LIKE TO KNOW.
SO YOU CAN
DESTROY IT.
SEE, I'VE READ
YOUR CASE FILE.
I'VE READ ABOUT HOW
YOUR FATHER WAS KILLED
WHEN YOU WERE 13,
AND EARLIER,
YOU SAID SOMETHING
ABOUT CROSSING A LINE
WHEN IT CAME
TO STALKING A CHILD.
I REALIZED
HOTCH'S SON JACK,
HE'S 13 NOW, TOO.
I'M NOT A PEDOPHILE.
I'M INSULTED
BY YOUR INFERENCE.
NO. YOUR INTEREST
IN JACK IS CLINICAL.
YOU WANT TO SEE
WHAT IT WILL BE LIKE
IF HE GROWS UP WITHOUT
HIS FATHER LIKE YOU DID.
THAT'S WHAT I'VE BEEN
FOCUSING ON.
AFTER YOU KILL HOTCH,
YOU'LL NEVER
LEAVE JACK ALONE.
AM I RIGHT?
YOU ARE.
THEN LET ME TELL YOU
SOMETHING, PETER.
I'VE DIED BEFORE
PROTECTING A CHILD.
THAT WAS A CHILD
I BARELY KNEW,
BUT JACK,
I LOVE JACK.
I'VE WATCHED
JACK GROW UP.
I WILL NOT BETRAY HIM
OR HIS FATHER,
SO IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHAT YOU DO TO ME.
I WILL NOT BREAK.
LET ME TEST
THAT RESOLVE.
[INSTRUMENTS CLATTER]
YOU MAKE AN
INTERESTING POINT.
I NEED A PLAN "B."
[INSTRUMENTS CLATTER]
[GASPING]
HEY, YOU, COME HERE...
[PRENTISS PANTS]
JUST FOR A SECOND.
PLEASE, I JUST NEED A SECOND.
[PRENTISS PANTS]
[TYPING]
THIS I MIGHT BE
ABLE TO HELP WITH.
PRENTISS' LAST TEXT
HAD TO DO WITH HONDURAS.
SCRATCH'S LAST KNOWN
SIGHTING BEFORE TONIGHT
WAS HONDURAS.
RIGHT, AND WE THOUGHT
SCRATCH FLED THERE
AFTER HE FRAMED REID
FOR MURDER IN MEXICO.
RIGHT. PRENTISS ASKED
THE IRT TO CONTACT
OUR CENTRAL AMERICAN
SOURCES JUST TO SEE
IF WE COULD FIND
ANYTHING.
NOW, WE NEVER DID.
WE ALSO NEVER STOPPED
TO ASK WHY SCRATCH
WAS IN HONDURAS
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
REID'LL
FIGURE THIS OUT.
HE'S REALLY AMAZING
AT THIS KIND OF THING.
[SLAM]
[GASPS]
B-CAP IS SHORT FOR
BANISTERIOPSIS CAAPI.
IT'S A PLANT, SPECIFICALLY
A HALLUCINOGEN THAT'S FOUND
IN A TEA CALLED
AYAHUASCA.
WE WORKED A COUPLE
OF THOSE CASES, I THINK.
IF I REMEMBER,
IT'S LIKE PEYOTE.
YEAH,
IN MULTIPLE WAYS.
THEY'RE SIMILAR LEGALLY
IN THAT TAKING THEM
IS CONSIDERED
A RELIGIOUS PRACTICE,
AND PHARMACOLOGICALLY,
THEY'RE SIMILAR IN THAT
BOTH DRUGS CAUSE YOU
TO HALLUCINATE
INTENSE, GEOMETRIC PATTERNS
AND VOMIT A LOT.
OK. WHAT DOES THIS
HAVE TO DO WITH SCRATCH?
WELL, SCRATCH HAS A COCKTAIL
OF DISASSOCIATIVE DRUGS
TO INDUCE DELUSIONS,
BUT A MATHEMATICAL MIND
LIKE HIS WOULD ALWAYS
BE LOOKING FOR WAYS
TO TWEAK AND
IMPROVE THE FORMULA.
SO HE WENT TO HONDURAS
TO LOOK FOR IT.
HE THEN BROUGHT IT BACK TO DC
TO EXPERIMENT WITH IT.
STEPHEN AND EMILY
CAME TO THE SAME CONCLUSION
AND TRIED TO PRETEND LIKE
THEY WERE HOT ON HIS TRAIL.
WE NEED TO TRACK DOWN
ALL PRACTITIONERS
OF THE CEREMONY
IN THE DISTRICT --
SHAMANS, GU RUS,
OVERNIGHT RELIGIONS
THAT JUST HUNG
THEIR FIRST SHINGLE.
HE COULD BE USING
ONE OF THEIR VOLUNTEERS
AS A PARTNER, EITHER
WITTING OR UNWITTING.
WHAT?
YOU THREW A BOOK AT A WINDOW.
IT WAS JARRING.
TOOK ME 60 MINUTES
TO DEDUCE
WHAT SHOULD HAVE
TAKEN ME 60 SECONDS,
AND IF EMILY DIES
BECAUSE I WAS TOO SLOW,
I'LL BE THROWING
A LOT MORE THAN BOOKS.
[EKG BEEPING]
PRENTISS: PLEASE.
PLEASE HELP ME.
YOU DON'T EVEN HAVE
TO GET ME OUT OF HERE.
JUST MAKE A PHONE CALL.
YOU CAN USE MY PHONE.
CALL 911, LEAVE
THE PHONE, AND RUN.
I CAN'T DO THAT.
I WON'T TELL THEM
YOU WERE INVOLVED.
IT'S NOT
THAT SIMPLE.
YOU SAID WE WERE BOTH
BEING TAKEN CARE OF.
YOU MEAN TRAPPED.
HE HAS YOUR FAMILY,
DOESN'T HE?
OK. MY TEAM
CAN RESCUE THEM.
IT'S WHAT WE DO.
I HAVE TO GO.
NO. PLEASE.
I CAN'T.
TAKE MY PHONE.
PLEASE TAKE MY PHONE.
IT'S SO HARD TO FIND
GOOD HELP THESE DAYS.
IT SEEMS LIKE,
NO MATTER WHAT,
I'M LEFT TO DO
ALL THE DIRTY WORK.
WHAT IS THAT?
IS THAT THE MORPHINE?
IT'S AMPHETAMINE.
I FIGURED OUT
MY PLAN "B."
I CAN'T TORTURE THE
ANSWERS OUT OF YOU,
SO I'LL SIMPLY STOP
YOUR HEART INSTEAD.
[EKG BEEPING]
[GASPING]
[BEEP BEEP BEEP]
[DEFIBRILLATOR HUMMING]
IF YOU WANT TO LIVE,
TELL ME WHAT
I WANT TO KNOW.
WHERE'S HOTCH,
EMILY?
[MOANS]
WHERE'S HOTCH?
[RAPID BEEPING]
[GASPING]
[FLATLINE BEEP]
[GASPING STOPS]
[PADDLES CLATTER]
[FLATLINE BEEP CONTINUES]
[FLATLINE BEEP]
[BEEP BEEP]
[DEFIBRILLATOR HUMMING]
COME ON.
[BEEP BEEP BEEP]
[FLATLINE BEEP CONTINUES]
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
OF COURSE.
I GET IT NOW.
I GET IT.
[GASPS]
[MOANS]
THAT'S IT.
[PANTING]
[HISSING]
PLEASE,
TELL HIM WHAT
HE WANTS.
IF YOU TELL HIM
WHAT HE WANTS,
THIS CAN ALL
BE OVER.
HE'LL RELEASE
MY FAMILY, AND--
AND THEN I CAN
HELP YOU, OK?
[MUFFLED]
WHAT?
WHAT'S THAT?
GO GET HIM.
[EXHALES]
[EKG BEEPING]
GARCIA: OK, SO APPARENTLY,
THE ONLY LOCAL PLACE
USING B-CAP IS THE CHURCH
OF THE HERBAL SACRAMENT,
"WHERE YOU CAN FIND
EVERYTHING
"FOR YOUR
SPIRITUAL NEEDS
THAT ONLY AYAHUASCA
CAN FULFILL."
WALK ME THROUGH WHAT'S GONNA
HAPPEN WHEN WE GET THERE.
WE ASK QUESTIONS,
AND WE COME HOME.
NO CREEPY WEIRDNESS?
NO WEIRDNESS.
GOOD BECAUSE
I'M ABOUT FULL UP
IN THE CREEPY WEIRDNESS
DEPARTMENT FOR ONE NIGHT.
[PEOPLE RETCHING]
MAN: I'VE SEEN
THE FACE OF GOD.
I'VE SEEN IT.
[RETCHING]
SO MUCH FOR NO
CREEPY WEIRDNESS.
[RETCHING CONTINUES]
[BUZZ BUZZ]
SCRATCH'S
RADIO SIGNAL.
[BUZZ BUZZ]
[CREAK]
CLEAR. COME ON IN.
MOTHER LODE.
YEAH. LOOKS LIKE
WE FOUND SCRATCH'S
I.T. DEPARTMENT,
NO SCRATCH.
YEAH, BUT THIS IS WHERE
HE'S BEEN DOING EVERYTHING--
HACKING ME,
HACKING OUR PHONES,
THE WHOLE TAMALE--
AND, JUST LIKE
YOU PREDICT ED,
HE'S BEEN BOUNCING
THE SIGNAL
OFF MULTIPLE
BUILDINGS.
WE'RE CLOSE, MATT.
MAN ON P.A.: WE NEED
A WHEELCHAIR TO [INDISTINCT],
WHEELCHAIR TO [INDISTINCT].
CAN'T HELP
BY LYING DOWN,
AND I HEAR
TARA'S WAKING UP.
DO YOU--DO YOU
WANT ME TO FIND YOU
SOME CRUTCHES
OR SOMETHING?
I DON'T NEED THEM.
I GOT YOU.
LEWIS: SCRATCH.
SCRATCH TOOK EMILY.
I SAW HIM.
YEAH. WE KNOW.
WE'RE LOOKING
FOR HIM.
HE DOSED HER.
IN THE SUV
WHILE SHE WAS KNOCKED OUT?
YEAH.
LEWIS, VOICE-OVER:
HE BROUGHT HIS GAS WITH HIM.
[PRENTISS MOANING]
[HISSING]
YOUR LEGS
ARE BROKEN.
YOUR RIGHT ARM
IS BROKEN.
YOU'RE IN
SEVERE TRACTION,
AND YOU'RE
PARALYZED.
YOU FEEL
UNIMAGINABLE AGONY
ALL OVER YOUR BODY
UNLESS I GIVE YOU
HIGH DOSES
OF PAINKILLER.
SHE WOULD WAKE
IN A DELUSION
HE'D HAVE TOTAL
CONTROL OVER.
HE THINK SHE KNOWS
WHERE HOTCH IS,
SO HE'S TRYING
TO TRICK HER.
SHE'S ONE OF THE
SMARTEST PEOPLE WE KNOW.
SHE'D SEE
THROUGH IT.
SO SCRATCH WOULD GO
EVEN FARTHER.
SOMETIMES INTERROGATORS
EVEN SIMULATE DEATH.
MAN, HE COULD
MAKE IT FEEL
LIKE THE REAL THING.
NO. THAT WOULDN'T WORK.
REMEMBER, ROSSI, WHEN PRENTISS
TOLD US ABOUT WHEN SHE DIED,
FOR REAL DIED,
HOW FOR HER,
IT WAS JUST
DARK AND COLD?
THAT'S RIGHT.
IF HE MADE HER
EXPERIENCE SOME
OUT-OF-BODY VISION,
SHE'D KNOW IT WAS A LIE.
[EKG BEEPING]
[BEEPING STOPS]
YEAH. I GET IT.
JAREAU, VOICE-OVER: HE PROBABLY
COMBINED THE DELUSION
WITH A CLASSIC
PRISONER INTERROGATION TACTIC.
AT FIRST, HE WOULD TAKE AWAY
ANY CHANCE OF ESCAPE.
THEN HE WOULD INTRODUCE
SOMEBODY ELSE
AND GIVE HER
A SLIVER OF HOPE.
ALVEZ, VOICE-OVER: IT COULD BE
A SECOND INTERROGATOR
WHO IS A NICE GUY.
HE'S ON HIS WAY, OK?
ROSSI, VOICE-OVER: THAT GUY
WOULD BE HER BLIND SPOT.
SHE'D TRUST HIM AND THEN
REVEAL SOMETHING SHE SHOULDN'T.
OK?
YEAH. YEAH. OK.
[CELL PHONE RINGS]
[BEEP]
HEY, WHAT DO
YOU GOT, MATT?
SIMMONS, ON PHONE: WELL,
WE PINNED DOWN SCRATCH'S
MOST LIKELY LOCATION BASED
ON HIS RADIO FREQUENCY.
IT'S A WAREHOUSE
IN THE DISTRICT.
GARCIA JUST TEXTED
THE ADDRESS.
[BEEP]
SHE INCLUDED REID
ON THE TEXT.
REID'S NOT
IN A GOOD PLACE.
I'M 10 OUT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO AM I.
IF I WOULD'VE KNOWN
THAT PUTTING YOU
AT DEATH'S DOOR
WOULD GET YOU TO TALK,
I WOULD'VE STARTED
WITH THAT.
NOW, ARE YOU
READY TO TELL ME
WHERE HOTCH
AND JACK ARE?
GOOD. GO AHEAD.
THEY'RE AT...
TELL ME.
8...5...
AAGH!
ARGH! AGH!
[PRENTISS PANTING]
UH!
FBI!
[TIRES SCREECH]
ALVEZ: PRENTISS! REID!
UH!
PRENTISS!
LOWER YOUR WEAPON,
DAMN IT.
WHERE'S SCRATCH?
OH, HE'S UPSTAIRS.
TAG IN HERE.
SIMMONS AND ALVEZ
CAN BOX HIM IN.
NO. I NEED
TO GO FIND HIM.
NO, NO, NO, SPENCE.
PLEASE.
I NEED SOMEONE I KNOW
IS REAL RIGHT NOW, ALL RIGHT?
[SIGHS]
YOU OK?
UH-HUH.
[SLAM]
[PANTING]
HELP ME, PLEASE.
HELP ME.
AAH!
[THUD]
SCRATCH IS DOWN.
REPEAT--SCRATCH IS DOWN.
HE FELL TRYING
TO ESCAPE.
[SIRENS APPROACHING]
OH...
PRENTISS: WE NEVER GET
TO SAY GOOD-BYE THE WAY WE WANT,
AND WHEN WE DEAL WITH A LOSS
SO SUDDEN AND CRUEL,
OUR EMOTIONS CAN OVERWHELM US.
STEPHEN WALKER WAS A GOOD AGENT,
BUT HE WAS A BETTER MAN.
HE MADE THE WORLD
A BETTER PLACE,
AND WE CAN HONOR HIM BY DOING
THE WORK HE NEVER GOT TO DO.
[FOY VANCE'S "BURDEN" PLAYING]
VANCE:
* LET ME CARRY YOUR BURDEN
* IF SOMETHING'S NOT RIGHT,
I WILL LET YOU KNOW *
* LIKE THE PAINT THAT'S DRYING
ON A HEART THAT'S BROKE *
* LET ME CARRY YOUR BURDEN
* GET YOU BACK ON A HIGH
WHEN YOU'RE FEELING LOW *
* WHEN THE WEIGHT'S TOO HEAW
BUT YOU WON'T LET GO *
THERE ARNC'J'O WORDS.
THERE ARE NOT.
MONICA, I ASKED STEPHEN
TO JOIN THE BAU.
I ASKED HIM TO
HUNT SCRATCH.
I GOT HIM KILLED, AND--
PETER LEWIS
KILLED MY HUSBAND...
AND I CHOOSE
TO BELIEVE
STEPHEN CAN REST
KNOWING HE HELPED
THIS TEAM CATCH HIM.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYTHING
THE BUREAU CAN DO
FOR YOU OR YOUR FAMILY,
PLEASE--
I WILL.
RIGHT NOW,
MY KIDS NEED ME...
VANCE: * PRETTY SOON,
I'LL SEE YOU SMILE *
* AND YOU KNOW YOU WILL
AND YOUR TEAM
NEEDS YOU.
VANCE: * OH, WELL, NO MATTER HOW
MUCH YOU'RE HURTING RIGHT NOW *
* YOU KNOW THAT EVERYTHING
WILL CHANGE IN TIME *
HEY...
VANCE: * OH, I JUST MIGHT SEE IT
IN ANOTHER LIGHT *
* GOT NO DOG HERE IN THE FIGHT
* I COULD CARRY YOUR BURDEN,
O BROTHER MINE *
OHH...
OK.
WE'RE OK.
I WANTED TO THANK YOU
FOR ALL OF YOUR HELP.
WELL, IT WAS GOOD
TO BE OF HELP.
EVER SINCE THE IRT
WENT DOWN, I'VE BEEN
SITTING ON MY HANDS WAITING
FOR A NEW ASSIGNMENT.
WE SHOULD SIT DOWN
TOMORROW.
WE CAN TALK
ABOUT THAT.
I'D LIKE THAT.
SO WE ALL NEED
TO DISCUSS
WHAT PETER LEWIS' DEATH
MEANS FOR THIS TEAM.
IT MEANS THAT HOTCH
CAN COME BACK.
YEAH.
WE SPOKE TO HIM.
HE WAS RELIEVED
THAT HE AND JACK
WERE OUT OF DANGER.
THEY'RE OUT OF
WITNESS PROTECTION,
BUT, UM--
HE'S NOT COMING
BACK, IS HE?
HE LOVES BEING
A FULL-TIME DAD.
HE NEVER GOT TO DO
THAT BEFORE,
AND--LET'S FACE IT--
IN THIS JOB--
THERE'S ALWAYS GONNA
BE ANOTHER SCRATCH,
AND HE'S
LOST ENOUGH.
WE ALL HAVE.
YES. WE HAVE,
WHICH IS WHY
THE DIRECTOR
HAS ORDERED US
TO TAKE SOME TIME OFF
FROM HANDLING CASES,
BUT BEFORE WE ALL LEAVE,
THERE'S ONE LAST THING
I NEED TO SAY.
SCRATCH GOT DEEPER INTO MY HEAD
THAN I CARE TO ADMIT,
AND THE ONLY WAY
I WAS ABLE TO STAY SANE
WAS BY REPEATING A MANTRA,
TWO WORDS.
YOU KNOW WHAT
THOSE TWO WORDS WERE?
"WHEELS UP."
IT SAVED MY LIFE WHEN I WASN'T
SURE I WAS GONNA MAKE IT
BECAUSE IT REMINDED ME THAT YOU
WERE OUT THERE FIGHTING,
SO TAKE YOUR REST--
YOU'VE EARNED IT--
BUT WHEN WE GET BACK,
WHEELS UP, MATT.
WHEELS UP, EMILY.
WHEELS UP,
TARA.
WHEELS UP.
DAMN RIGHT,